>> Brian Holt: Let's take
a look at our exercises.
This one does have some
visualization to help you out.
In fact, let's show you what it
looks like when it's completed.
>> Brian Holt: So these are the mazes.
Exactly what they should look
like by the time you're done.
You're gonna be calling
randomized directions, but
randomized directions actually
is not randomizing them for you.
It's gonna give you back
a set same of directions, so
that I can tell that you're doing
the maze the correct way, right?
So you get to assume it's
random even though it's not.
If you call randomized direction too many
times, you're gonna see a big console
warning in your console that says, by
the way you called this too many times so
I'm just gonna give you
back something random but
you're probably not gonna
get this correct so.
Be aware that that happens.
So this is what the 5 x 5 one should look
like, the 8 x 8, the 15 x 15 will look
something like that.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
So, and let's see.
>> Brian Holt: The maze
will be an array of arrays of objects,
right?
We're familiar with arrays of arrays.
0 x 0 is here.
And then,
each one of these objects has a visited,
whether it's been visited or not, right?
So you're gonna set that to true
as soon as it's been visited.
And then you're gonna see
here that it has walls.
>> Brian Holt: By default,
everything given to you in the first
go is going to have a wall, right?
All of these have walls between them.
As you get through more and more of them,
you'll be setting these to false
when there's no wall between them.
Remember that for all these operations.
So like if I'm going from 0 0 to 1 0 I
have to set 0 0's north wall to false and
I also have to set 1 0
south wall to false so
there are two walls you have to tear down,
okay?
The outer array represents the Y axis,
the inner array represents the X axis.
So your accessors look like that,
[y][x], similar to before.
The starting coordinate will be a pair.
It's gonna be 5, 4, something like that.
You don't have to do any
boundary checkings on this.
I guarantee you that I'm gonna
give you a well formatted graph.
And I'm going to give you
valid starting points, right.
So I'm not interested in the educations
here, I'm just interested in you getting
the algorithms down.
>> Male 2: Does direction include
directions that are not on the graph?
>> Brian Holt: That one will, yeah.
So those ones you definitely do
have to do boundary checking.
This randomized direction
function is available
globally.
>> Brian Holt: The other thing is,
you can work on the maze directly itself.
Don't worry about being
destructive on your parameters.
That's never a bad idea, I'm just kidding,
that's usually always a bad idea but
that's fine in this particular case.
It's gonna be returning, so
randomizedDirections will be returning
north, east, south, west, in some order.
And then you just follow those in
that order.
>> Brian Holt: If you're messing
around with this later,
if you're a nerd like me,
if you do setOrder(null) this will
actually make it truly random
if you want to like generate your own
fun graphs, which I have never done.
I'm not that nerdy, just kidding.
I totally did.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah and
you'll see a console error if you
call randomize directions too
much.
>> Brian Holt: So
something that you'll get from
this helper which I found helpful.
If the square's red,
it means that it's not visited.
Everything should be visited by the end.
And then you'll also be able to see.
You can see the north wall here, and
you can see the south wall here, right?
So if you can, you'll be able to tell if
one of them hasn't been visited, or not.
If you'd like to see all the utility
functions, they're all written out here in
this other code pen.
>> Brian Holt: Highly, highly suggest here
that you work on one unit test at a time,
and try not to solve all of them at once,
because there's a decent chance
you're gonna hit infinite recursion.
If you do hit infinite recursion and
you save your CodePen that can be a bit of
a disaster, because CodePen will run
things as soon as you open the tab again.
So there is a way, if you just Google
CodePen disable JavaScript, it will show
you how to make it not run it so you can
fix it, save it, and then reload the page.
So just Google it.
>> Brian Holt: Cool,
so you can see here this is what
it's gonna expect to look for.
This is quite long because
15 x 15 is a lot of
cells.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
So, I'm gonna give you a bit
of a break to do this.